Use individual meta keys for Additional fields. (#46091)
woocommerce/woocommerce: plugins/woocommerce-blocks/docs/third-party-developers/extensibility/checkout-block/additional-checkout-fields.md

![The additional order information block in the post editor"](https://github.com/woocommerce/woocommerce/assets/5656702/05a3d7d9-b3af-4445-9318-443ae2c4d7d8)

## Accessing values

> Additional fields are saved to individual meta keys in both the customer meta and order meta, you can access them using helper methods, or using the meta keys directly, we recommend using the helper methods, as they're less likely to change, can handle future migrations, and will support future enhancement (like different read locations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional fields are saved to individual meta keys in both the customer meta and order meta, you can access them using helper methods, or using the meta keys directly, we recommend using the helper methods, as they're less likely to change, can handle future migrations, and will support future enhancements (e.g. reading from different locations).
```

> For address fields, 2 values are saved, one for shipping, and one for billing. For most cases, the billing value will be the same as shipping, but customers might opt-in to insert 2 different values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For address fields, two values are saved: one for shipping, and one for billing. If the customer has selected 'Use same address for billing` then the values will be the same, but still saved independently of each other.
```

For contact and additional fields, only one value is saved per field.

### Helper methods

`CheckoutFields` provides a couple of functions to access values from both customers and orders, those are `get_field_from_customer` and `get_field_from_order`

To access a customer billing and/or shipping value:

```php
use Automattic\WooCommerce\Blocks\Package;
use Automattic\WooCommerce\Blocks\Domain\Services\CheckoutFields;

$field_id = 'my-plugin-namespace/my-field';
$customer = wc()->customer; // Or new WC_Customer( $id )
$checkout_fields = Package::container()->get( CheckoutFields::class );
$my_customer_billing_field = $checkout_fields->get_field_from_customer( $field_id, $customer, 'billing' );
$my_customer_shipping_field = $checkout_fields->get_field_from_customer( $field_id, $customer, 'shipping' );
```

To access an order field:

```php
use Automattic\WooCommerce\Blocks\Package;
use Automattic\WooCommerce\Blocks\Domain\Services\CheckoutFields;

$field_id = 'my-plugin-namespace/my-field';
$order = wc_get_order( 1234 );
$checkout_fields = Package::container()->get( CheckoutFields::class );

> $my_order_billing_field = $checkout_fields->get_field_from_order( $field_id, $order, 'billing' );

Reviewer: Were we going to remove this abstraction and just use `get_field_from_object` ? Or do we want to keep that helper to make it easier for developers to reason with

$my_order_shipping_field = $checkout_fields->get_field_from_order( $field_id, $order, 'shipping' );
```

> After an order is placed, customer and order values will be the same, but customers can change that value for future orders, or from within their My Account page. So if you're looking at a customer value at that point in time, access it from the order, if you're looking for the most up to date value regardless, access it from the order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After an order is placed, the data saved to the customer and the data saved to the order will be the same. Customers can change the values for _future_ orders, or from within their My Account page. If you're looking at a customer value at a specific point in time (i.e. when the order was placed), access it from the order object, if you're looking for the most up to date value regardless, access it from the customer object.
```

#### Guest customers

> Values are still persisted to the guest customer session, as long as the session is valid, so is the value, this behaves the same as other guest values.

Reviewer: Not 100% sure what this is conveying, could you try to reword it?

#### Logged-in customers

> For logged-in customers, the value is only persisted once they place an order, accessing a logged-in customer during the place order lifecycle will return null or stale data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For logged-in customers, the value is only persisted once they place an order. Accessing a logged-in customer object during the place order lifecycle will return null or stale data.
```

If you're at a place order hook, doing this will return previous data (not the currently inserted one):

```php
$customer = new WC_Customer( $order->customer_id ); // Or new WC_Customer( 1234 )
$my_customer_billing_field = $checkout_fields->get_field_from_customer( $field_id, $customer, 'billing' );
```

> Instead, always reach to the latest data if you want to run some extra validation/data-moving:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, always access the latest data if you want to run some extra validation/data-moving:
```

```php
$customer = wc()->customer // This will return the current customer with its session.
$my_customer_billing_field = $checkout_fields->get_field_from_customer( $field_id, $customer, 'billing' );
```

#### Accessing all fields

You can use `get_all_fields_from_object` to access all additional fields saved to an order or a customer.

```php
use Automattic\WooCommerce\Blocks\Package;
use Automattic\WooCommerce\Blocks\Domain\Services\CheckoutFields;

$order = wc_get_order( 1234 );
$checkout_fields = Package::container()->get( CheckoutFields::class );
$order_additional_billing_fields = $checkout_fields->get_all_fields_from_object( $order, 'billing' );
$order_additional_shipping_fields = $checkout_fields->get_all_fields_from_object( $order, 'shipping' );
$order_additional_fields = $checkout_fields->get_all_fields_from_object( $order, 'additional' ); // Contact and Additional are saved in the same place under the additional group.
```

> This will return an array of all values, it will only include fields currently registered, if you want to include fields no longer registered, you can pass a third `true` parameter.

Reviewer: Maybe add how this works here (mentioning the prefix)

### Accessing values directly

While not recommended, you can use the direct meta key to access certain values, this is useful for external engines or page/email builders who only provide access to meta values.

Values are saved under a predefined prefix, this is needed to able to query fields without knowing which ID the field was registered under, for a field with key `'my-plugin-namespace/my-field'`, it's meta key will be:

The following if it's an address field:

- `_wc_billing/my-plugin-namespace/my-field`
- `_wc_shipping/my-plugin-namespace/my-field`

Or the following if it's a contact/additional field:

- `_wc_additional/my-plugin-namespace/my-field`.

Those prefixes are part of `CheckoutFields` class, and can be accessed using the following constants:

```php
echo ( CheckoutFields::BILLING_FIELDS_PREFIX ); // _wc_billing/
echo ( CheckoutFields::SHIPPING_FIELDS_PREFIX ); // _wc_shipping/
echo ( CheckoutFields::ADDITIONAL_FIELDS_PREFIX ); // _wc_additional/
```

> `CheckoutFields` provides a couple of helpers to get the group name or key based on one or the other:

Reviewer: Can you think of a use-case where the developer would need to use this? It might be nice to illustrate that to give more context.
